# Iterative SVD++ - Recommender System
**HIGHLIGHTS** 
* I propose an algorithm called Iterative SVD++ 
* Goals/Expectations: 
  - It is a suboptimal approximation with lower running time 
  - Give the upper bound of error generated by Iterative SVD++ 
  - Showing the advantages of my algorithm on Movielens 100k Dataset 
  
**OBJECTIVE:**
In recent years, the need for more accurate recommender systems to improve user interaction and provide more personalized services on eCommerce platforms such as Amazon and Netflix has been increasing globally. The motivation results from a desire to help users find an appropriate product that fits their tastes and meets a variety of special needs, enhancing users’ satisfaction and loyalty.  However, with the overload of vast amounts of customer data, recommender systems face challenges in processing data robustly and accurately. This proposal focuses on designing a movie recommendation system that works for offline and online processes, meaning performs well when new data is added to the original dataset.  The base algorithm in my paper is Singular Value Decompositions (SVD), an applied matrix factorization method of the item-based collaborative filtering model. To solve scalability matters and reduce the expensive matrix factorization steps, the Iterative SVD++ is expected to improve in prediction accuracy and run time. 

**DATA**
I use MovieLens 100k Dataset provided by the GroupLens Research to conduct the experiment. MovieLens is a web-based collect- ing and making the ratings data sets available from the MovieLens web site from September 19th 1997. There are diverse versions of MovieLens having different size range from 100,000 up to 1B ratings. I choose the recommended stable benchmarck data with 100,000 ratings from 943 users on 1682 movies collected in seven-month pe- riod from September 1997 through April 1998. In this dataset, each user has rated at least 20 movies and need to fill full demographic info (age, gender, occupation, zip). There are 4 columns including: the unique UserId (Customer Identification), the item ID (Netflix’s unique movies identification code for each product), ratings (ranging from 1-5 based on customer satisfaction) and the timestamp of the rating (in UNIX time). Converting the dataset into user-item matrix where rows represent users and columns represent items, I can apply different versions of SVD-based algorithms. The big problem of the original user-item matrix is sparsity - only 6.3% of entries are filled with ratings.

**MAIN PARTS**
1. *Exploratory Data Analysis and Post-Modeling:* emphasize the spread of movie ratings by looking at distributions and visualize the popular movies in each genre. Moreover, the EDA post-modeling step helps me figure out the differences between initial ratings and ratings after using model. From that, we can conclude about how accurate the model performed.
2. *Recommender Modeling:* Starting with a baseline SVD model without tuning any hyperparameters or making changes in algorithm, I will explore how updated Iterated SVD perform in term of accuracy and speed.
3. *Software demonstration video*
